# Reason Can Be Made
## by Richard Pham 

There is never a reason needed to challenge, other than motive from the spirit of adversity. 
---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

- Reason is human. That is the most accurate attribution. For a human being to say reason transcends the human mind is a big logical leap that cannot be proven, because the frame from this claim is still the human mind, despite the possibility for changes in perspective. Without acknowledgment from a human mind, natural phenomena would occur along a natural trajectory. With acknowledgment of the effect, the human mind serves to be the possible decider in human intervention of that natural phenomena. With adequate comprehension of the cause on top of that acknowledgment, a more effective resolution for that natural phenomena could possibly be achieved. 
- The perception of order is not reason. The order does not have to be rationalized for adequate understanding of its intrinsic and extrinsic characteristics by a human mind. 
- There are some basic cases where reason can be considered made, that is, the thinking does not have intrinsic support of consistent principle. The thinking could be a hypothesis that cannot yet be concluded on, yet the subject of that hypothesis could indeed have intrinsic support of consistent principle aligned with that hypothesis. In this case, support through factual knowledge uncovers the necessary intrinsic support for the reason to not just be a made reason. The thinking could be a command, a belief, or a narrative from another human being. A made reason is not a principle of science. A made reason can only exemplify principle of science. 
- The implications and allowances of social contracts and the temperamental nature of human emotion are related to made reason. 
- Human activity cannot always resort back to reason that is not made reason. Human activity cannot continue to bear, in conscious memory, reason of the constituents and the cause of some effect. 
And from the vantage point of observing, in order to reason about the effect that is human activity, when not confined entirely to the physical constraints of the world, correlations must be drawn to supposed causes. The correlation is oftentimes debatable, unless indisputable support is  used to buttress that correlation. 
- In phenomena that is multi-causal, there are fractures in human reasoning of the cause, fractures that cannot be ignored without suppression of the conflicting causes in order to arrive at a unified conclusion of reasoning on the cause. A unified conclusion of reasoning is no longer needed for decisions that impact phenomenon, of multi-causal origin, when said phenomenon has already arrived at an irreversible end.
- Made reason, in its contentious forms, invert or reverse rationale on the makings leading up to an outcome, as well as the causes and implications of that decision. In linguistic practice, antonyms become interchangeable. This interchangeability is irrational if one could only know the first point of observation of that interchangeability in speech. The interchangeability of speech could extend to physical means of action. The irrational nature of this interchangeability rests on the metaphysical weights of importance and direction assigned to the assets of pertinence in that context. In more complex cases, the ways of rationalizing about this interchangeability requires one to take sides, so that nullification through equivocation does not set into place on the speech and actions used. The benefit of remaining impartial rests on the lack of positive need to be present in these contexts of interchangeability. Figuratively, impartiality requires a world separated from this interchangeability. 
- The term, made reason, is important to understand the actual that has taken place or decided on by human beings, since it is not of universal rationality and is synonymous with human preference as well as human faith of unquantifiable quality. 
    - The term denotes an attempt to bring about reason to a belief or action. Made reason has greater linguistic compatibility with order. It is rationale that rests on top of irrational elements such as human emotion and social systems. Made reason can explain the causes underneath, but cannot explain the existence or expression of those causes. This fact cannot be used to conveniently dismiss made reason over science, for science also has its limits in the depths of its discovery of origin. 
- Human instinct is another phrasing that exemplifies made reason. 
- There is never a need to challenge, other than motive from the spirit of adversity. Made reason rests on this spirit to combat and defend. The objectives may be prestige or wealth. But these objectives are not reason of the cause, but the wanted ends that can be reasoned about as the preferred ends through the course of action. This differentiation can be rather embarrassing in revelation of underlying motives. That is if the challenge, itself, is to be a mark of shame. And shame is something that is brought down on. It is a downing sentiment, a descendence.
